# 1.1 - Getting Started
Carpenter Engine is a minimal C++ game engine focused on developing for a
WebAssembly. This allows the code to be compiled once in a low level language,
and will have the potential to run anywhere. Another benefit with this design,
is that the compiled C++ code also has the potential to communicate with
JavaScript to expand the functionality of the game jam.

## Pre-Reqs/Requirements
Before you begin, you are suggested to know at least a minimal amount of the following before using Carpenter Engine:
- Programming with C++ (Preferrably C++ 20)
- Usage of the terminal
- Experience using Node.js and NPM
- *Optional: Programming with JavaScript*
- *Optional: Some Design Pattern Knowledge will Help*

This tutorial will not teach you directly how to use these, but there are many sources online on how to work with these tools. This tutorial will also be demonstrated with `npm` as it is the stanadard installed with Node.js. However, you are free to use the NPM package manager of your choice if you have a preference with others (i.e. yarn, pnpm, etc.)

## Setting up your Project
Start off by creating a project folder and opening a terminal. in there you can run `npm init` to create your `package.json`. once your package.json is ready, you can install carpenter engine with the following:

```sh
$ npm install @mesaguilde/carpenter-engine
```

This will install the following into your project:
- Header files that are referenced during compilation stages
- A `.a` archive with the game engine framework that gets linked
- A built-in CLI toolkit to automate building the game.

To ensure the game engine is installed in the latest version, you can ensure the `package.json` has at least the following:

```json
{
  "name": "sample-game",
  "version": "1.0.0",
    ...
  "dependencies": {
    "@mesaguilde/carpenter-engine": "^0.1.x"
  }
}
```

NPM will also be used to track the version of Carpenter Engine for the game.
You can always upgrade the version as the game engine gets updated, but
because we are still in minor versions, beware of deprecation changes.

Once you've installed the game engine into the project folder, you will need
to perform one last step. This command will prepare the compiler, and any
folders that allow the built-in CLI toolkit to work as intended.

```sh
$ npx carp setup
```

This may take a while, but once completed, you will be good to get started

# Coding the Scene
After you follow the previous steps, you should be ready to start writing
code. make sure you have a `src` folder in your project. If not, feel free to
make one. In there, we will also create our starter C++ file and call it
`main.cpp`. We will need to create a new scene sub-class, and make it our initial scene by also creating a game instance and assigning the scene as the
first scene of the game.

```cpp
#include <Game.hpp>

class GameScene : public Engine::Scene {
  GameScene(const char* name) : Engine::Scene(name) {}
};

Engine::Game& game{Engine::Game::getInstance(new GameScene("Scene"))};
```

## Code Explanation
The game engine runs on a Node Object system structured as a tree. Every object running in the game is a node in a tree. This also means that Scenes are nodes.

There are also a few classes that are singletons. One of these is the `Engine::Game` class. These classes allow the compiled code to communicate with
the Client DOM so you should not be creating copies. Instead you will be accessing
a reference to a singleton. These singletons will be accessed using the `&` symbol.
For example `Engine::Game&` or when you do access the main renderer (See the
documentation for Engine::Game), you would be receiving an
`Engine::Graphics::Renderer&` and **NOT** an `Engine::Graphics::Renderer`.

As mentioned above, the compiled code is already designed to communicate with a
pre-designed HTML file and Client DOM. This also means you will not need to
implement a `main()` function. It is in fact a function that is not kept alive
during the compile process, and we believe should not run either way. *If this
is wrong, we will gladly correct it*

## Compiling and Testing

when you are ready to test your game and scene, it is as simple as running the following command:

```sh
$ npx carp build
```

This will compile all the C++ files in the project, and create a WASM and
JavaScript file that will be run when the game is ready to be run. To test the
game, you can run the following command:

```sh
$ npx carp dev

Development environment is now running! [✓]
Test your game at: http://localhost:3000/runtime
```

When you run this, you will be given a development server to test your game. It
will output and hold the following result. This runtime directory of the URL will
direct you to the game as the base url will be used for an editor to be
implemented in the future.

## Packaging your game

When you are done developing your game, you can use the following command to
package everything needed in the build directory:

```sh
$ npx carp build -p
```

This will package the rest of the assets needed into the `./build` folder
generated by the project. From there you can use tools such as Electron or Tauri
to package your game for release.

# Further Learning Carpenter Engine

This is a basic tutorial on how to use the latest version of Carpenter Engine.
The rest of how to use the game engine will be taught as you look at the classes
and the rest of the markdown files available. We will also gladly ask questions
about the game engine in our discord server
