# 1.2 - The Command Line Interface
The purpose of the CLI is to start offering a minimal toolkit to assist developing
with Carpenter Engine. Currently it offers a way to install emscripten, a
standardized way to build with the game engine, and a unit testing module to test
specific components.

```sh
npx carp {-v} {options} {--parameters}
```

> If you ever need a more descriptive output when using the CLI, you can always
> use -v before using any of the options.

## Setup
```sh
npx carp setup
```

Setup will perform the following tasks
- install/update emscripten for use with the game engine
- generate necessary folders for the toolkit to behave as needed

When setting up emscripten, it will create a folder in your user's home directory
called `.mesaguilde`. From here it will clone emscripten, pull any needed changes,
install the latest version and activate it.

Another step will make sure that the folders `build` and `objs` are generated.
These folders will be required folders as mentioned in the building section.

## Building
```sh
npx carp build {-cldLp} {-m main.cpp}
```

The build process is standardized so that libraries can be linked easier on
compilation. The goal of this system is to generate `.o` files for webassembly,
then link files into either a game, or into a .a archive to be used as a library.

### Process
1. Generate WASM `.o` files from `.cpp`
2. Link all .o files in the project into a single `.js` and `.wasm` file
3. package any required HTML and CSS files for to distribute the game with any
further steps desired

- If `-d` is used during the linking phase, this adds an easy debug layer to make
developing the game engine easier.
- If `-L` is added during the linking phase, this compiles the `.o` files into a
single `.a` file for to be used as a library (currently hard coded to build
carpenter engine)
- `-m` was implemented to easily test examples in the game engine, but if you do
wish to use use it, it is to be used to compile one external C++ file outside of
your src data.

## Development
```sh
npx carp dev
```

While developing your game, you can run a development environment using this
command. This will for now host a runtime to test your game, but there will be
development for an editor for the game engine in the future.

## Testing
```sh
npx carp test
```

testing compiles and runs all tests in tests/CPP into tests/WASM before running the
tests.

### Cleaning
```sh
npx carp flip
```

with the `flip` command, you can clean your project folder, and all of the .o files
built in the folder
