# 1.3 - Shader Parameters

To make this game engine compatible with web browsers, the system uses OpenGL ES 2.0. This allows for GLSL shader compatibility on not only just web, but it can expand to native desktop, and more conveniently, mobile. When you are programming your vertex and fragment shaders, there are a collection of pre-defined uniforms you can use to design your shaders:

# General Parameters

## Window
`uniform vec2 u_Window`

the whole purpose of the window uniform is to pass your window dimensions to the game engine. This is intended for scaling your objects to fit the users window to how you wish your game to behave.

## Transformations
`uniform mat4 u_Transform`

the goal of the transformation uniform is to tell the vertex shader how to transform the vertex. Usually this will include translations, scaling, and potentially rotations. If you were to call `Engine::Graphics::Renderer::DrawMesh()`, you will definitely have access to all of these parameters.

`uniform mat4 u_Camera`

This holds the transformation in respect to the camera.

# Vertex Shaders

## Position 
`attribute vec3 a_Position`

The position of the vertex stored as a vec3

## UV Coordinates
`attribute vec2 a_UV`

The texture coordinates of a vertex stored from 0 to 1.

## Normals
`attribute vec3 a_Normal`

The normal vector of the vertex. 
In most cases, this should be normalized to a unit vector but it will face away from the triangle it is associated with.

# Fragment Shaders

## Textures
Because of the way textures are accessed in the engine (and GLSL in general), There are no names for the textures, but rather depends on the index of the shader. You may follow any order you wish when loading the textures, but here is what we use in the studio:

0. RGBA Albedo
1. Normal Map

Although there are no predefined enums for using these textures (yet) you can use GL_TEXCOORD definitions freely in `Engine::Graphics::Renderer::UseTexture()`